gaming laptops are confusing right now
there's a ton of options to choose from
and a lot of those options are super
expensive but then to make matters worse
the marketing around all this stuff is
just extra complex like there's all this
talk about like Ai and just it's way
more convoluted than it needs to be uh
I'm going to break this down into a
fairly simple video I should hope uh in
front of me are a bunch of the laptops I
actually think I have most of the
noteworthy devices that are available
for 2024 right now uh we're going to go
through all of them but before that I
want to talk about a few things so just
the higher level details when it comes
to like the GPU and the CPU options that
we have as well as how they affect a
purchase decision but let's go in okay
gpus they are single-handedly the most
important factor when it comes to how
good the performance of your laptop is
going to be with games and the good news
is that last year's gpus so like the 40
series that launched last year are the
same gpus that are available this year
this chart here shows how the currently
available gpus roughly stack up so the
older RTX 30 series gpus aren't actually
that far away from the newer 40 series
stuff in terms of just raw performance
so we do find like a cheaper or deeply
discounted 30 series gaming laptop it's
still a great pickup the AMD laptop gpus
available right now are also good but
unless you can get a really good deal on
them you just tend to get better value
with laptops equipped with Nvidia gpus
right now the other thing to keep in
mind is GPU wattage so that's basically
how much power you're feeding into gpus
so typically when it comes to a GPU the
more watts you feed it the better it
performs and with older generations of
Nvidia gpus like the 20 series and 30
series you could absolutely have like a
mid-tier GPU like an RTX 3060 that would
outperform a laptop that was running an
RTX 370 if the 3060 was given enough
juice but on the 40 series gpus it's not
like that the 4050 4060 and 470 gpus all
cap out at around 100 or 105 Watts
anything more than that is a complete
waste despite what some companies will
try to tell you but the RX 4080 and 4090
those still scale quite nicely with
extra power so if you have a system that
can take advantage of that extra wattage
you'll see the best performance
there the other component we got to talk
about is the CPU so CPU Choice does
dictate the size or the form factor of
your system because CPUs are the have
the biggest differ in terms of like how
much power they consume right now so we
have the classic Intel Core H processors
like the i7 I9 those are powerful but
energy hungry and then we also have
amd's ryzen HX CPUs these are also
really powerful but also use a lot of
energy and we also have amd's ryzen HS
CPUs these tend to be a little bit more
energy efficient but then new for this
year are Intel's core Ultra processors
so these have a new architecture and
they are also geared towards Energy
Efficiency now any of those four chips
will give you great gaming performance
but if I was trying to choose between
them the way i' break it down is this
don't sweat over the CPU the graphics
chip is so much more important for
gaming performance but if you want a
system that has better battery life or
you want a quieter system or you want a
cooler running system I would go for an
AMD ryzen HS chip or one of those new
Intel Core Ultra chips those excel at
those metrics but if you want the best
possible performance like the best CPU
performance like if you're not just
doing gaming and you want want to do uh
like video editing or just workflows
that lean on
CPU then and only then would I get one
of those core I9 or ryzen HX chips
because those just run hotter now in
terms of the generation of Chip there
isn't enough of a difference in
performance between generations to be
choosing a laptop based on that despite
what the marketing would tell you uh the
other thing amd's ryzen chips and the
Intel Core Ultra chips do have internal
gpus like they're not amazing they won't
give you the highest frame rate but but
in a pinch if you want to save battery
life or whatever you could use the
internal gpus and get decent gaming
performance all right let's go through
some devices so first up we have Lenovo
with their Legion lineup these laptops
have been consistently awesome for the
past like 3 or 4 years they used to suck
horribly like 7 years ago they used to
truly suck and then something happened
they got they got awesome so up top we
have their Legion 9 this is forged
carbon fiber this looks super sick uh
the internals haven't changed much like
it's just 14th gen chip in there so it's
not too much to talk about same thing
with this product this is their Legion
Pro 7 awesome device but just a chip
drop so I'm not going to dig in but this
device is their new one this is the
legion 7 all new design all new form
factor completely redesigned thermal
system and well first of all the color
it's white it's already winning and then
you pop it open it's even more white so
it's winning even more there is
something really nice about the overall
package on the new Legion 7 this year I
like the thermal design I like the
screen I like the design also the
keyboard like this is arguably one of
the best keyboards in the industry it is
Lenovo they do own the ThinkPad IP so
this is basically like ThinkPad keyboard
on a gaming laptop which is really nice
the one thing that was kind of
interesting to me though is that all of
lenovo's Legion lineup right now still
uses the core i7 and core I9 chips like
the higher wattage higher heat chips so
obviously Lenovo trusts in their thermal
systems get rid of that heat but I'm
surprised there's no like core Ultra
chipped laptop like maybe in the future
they'll make something that's a little
bit thinner even this thing is like
fairly thin but I don't know I would
like to see something that actually
takes advantage of that lower Waters
chip from Intel coming out of Legion all
right next up is Asus they have their
stxs lineup this has been updated to the
new 14th generation chips from Intel the
higher wattage like the core i7 core I9
stuff but the rest of the product hasn't
really changed much I want to to focus
your attention on these two guys the G14
and g16 so these are I think the most
interesting laptops that uh Asus makes
this year what makes them special for me
first of all is the screen so this
screen is an OLED panel and it's just so
nice it's redefined what I've kind of
viewed gaming laptops to be first of all
the one on the 14 in is 120 HZ the one
on the 16 in is 240 HZ and it's just
like everything just pops on this thing
it's OLED high contrast really fast
refresh rate super fast response time
these things have less than a
millisecond response time and if you
look at the footprint of the G14 it is
actually super small if you compare to
the g16 like it is so small yet has such
awesome performance coming off of this
thing so the chip that's inside the G14
is the AMD ryzen chip the one that's in
the chip that's inside the g16 is the
Intel Core Ultra chip but both of them
are great performers the other thing
speakers both of them have awesome
speakers the G14 in particular has a
surprisingly good set of speakers on a
14-in device when I measured it this
14-in speaker has the same kind of
acoustic capabilities as the ones on the
MacBooks they're that good it's like I
think the only one out there the only
Windows gaming laptop that can hit to
the same kind of audio quality as
Mac comes from this thing right here uh
love the white color way obviously now
the darker color on the G 16 remember
this thing is running the uh core Ultra
chip this also looks awesome it's just
so good giant trackpad now there's a few
disadvantages or kind of things that I
don't love about this particular product
the first thing is that the RAM on both
these devices are soldered on you can't
upgrade it which is especially sucky for
a gaming laptop secondly the power
adapter uses a proprietary connection
which I don't love seeing like I wish so
badly that this was just some kind of
High wattage USBC that they've been able
to pull off but seemingly they can't do
it yet uh the third thing that I don't
love about it is the price these are
more expensive than the G14 and g16 from
the previous generations obviously it's
a much thinner and more elegant design
it's a lot more premium product but this
thing starts at like 2100 bucks for the
14-inch model and it just goes up in
price granted the screens awesome the
entire product awesome but super high
price tag right now Razer also launched
some new devices now the 14 and 16in
blade showed up in studio a little while
ago but I didn't make dedicated videos
on them simply because the performance
is so similar to last generation very
little has changed other than some chip
drops so I wasn't going to waste your
time making you watch a dedicated piece
on that but this top one the 14in uh it
doesn't have a new screen but the GPU
that's inside here is actually a
slightly more powerful version than the
previous generation it's still an RTX
4070 and it's still 100 140 Watts like
that extra wattage that Razer likes to
throw onto it uh so the wattage hasn't
changed but somehow they've able to make
this thing higher performing now when I
ran some benchmarks on it it does seem
that this thing clocks a little bit
faster than the previous generation and
I think it's simply because it's able to
sustain a higher wattage this is super
sweaty but it's like the 2024 version
the 14-inch blade hits about a 100 Watts
maybe like 105 Watts sustained the
previous generation hit like 85 Watts
sustained it's a noticeable difference
in kind of sustained energy consumption
and I think that's why it's able to run
a little bit faster that's the 14inch
blade now under oh look at that skin
dude um okay so this is the new 16-in
blade 14th gen Intel chip like the I9
but the screen on this thing it's the St
of the show look at this thing well you
can't even tell but it's glossy and it
is one of those 16-in OLED panels now
this one in particular I think is the
best gaming panel on the market it's
better than the one that we saw on the
Asus g16 but the reason why it's so good
is because this particular panel has
been tuned in conjunction with Samsung
it's just the fastest one e it's got the
fastest response time and it's super
fast refresh rate it's just like
literally the goat of gaming laptop
screens the only thing that I think it
could improve on is just brightness if
this was a little bit brighter I think
this would be literally the best
possible screen you could get on gaming
laptops I can't even imagine this
technology getting any better it's just
that good I really think that like it's
it's awesome plus this is my favorite
skin on the razors uh okay the 18in so
this also has that 14th gen Intel chip
it's just a chip drop but this is the
first laptop in the world with
Thunderbolt 5 so if high bandwidth
external devic is important to you this
is the first device to be able to do it
now Thunderbolt 5 has a ton of bandwidth
so you you can connect three external 4K
displays all running at 144 HZ it's just
if that's what you're looking for if you
want to be able to have that kind of uh
external connection right now this is
the device to do it but overall the
Razer devices I mean they're pretty
solid year- on-year and I think of all
the 14-inch devices out there the
14-inch blade tends to be the highest
performing just because they put a lot
of effort into their cooling uh but
their stuff is super expensive if you've
ever wondered why I think ultimately
Razer can charge that money because no
one else really builds systems quite
like this and I've always said that if
you're the only person building a
machine that's like this technically you
can charge whatever you want because no
one else does it all right next up is
Dell's XPS lineup and these are not
marketed as gaming laptops whatsoever so
I contemplated whether or not you should
even include them in this video but in
the end I decided to because these
always have a place in my heart as like
gaming capable the very first
Performance Machine I ever bought like a
gaming capable machine was like the 2016
XPS 15 and I loved it and this is way
better now uh in terms of just like
gaming capabilities it's got a kickass
screen so these now have 120 HZ refresh
rate screens they're awesome to look at
I love the lattice keyboard like this is
a really strange looking keyboard at
first but if you play if you want to
play games on it it's very comfortable
the trackpad is like that invisible
trackpad so you can move the the curse
around but then it just kind of like
disappears on the edge and the function
key are non-existent they're like built
into the kind of invisible display at
the top it's not really a display but
it's just like a bunch of LEDs that
change so there's a lot of stuff that
makes it not gaming friendly but gaming
capable and if you're someone that's
like drawn to this product because you
like the way that it looks I don't blame
you dude I've been there so that's why
it's in this video now the thing to keep
in mind is that because both of these
products are geared for I guess they're
meant to be like elegant premium
products right they're not high
performance machines as like the as the
main goal these have a lower wattage GPU
compared to the rest of the high
performance machines and because of that
you don't have the best possible
performance now I think that for a lot
of kind of light to moderate gaming this
is more than capable and it really is
one of the best looking performance
machines you can get in the Windows
laptop space especially with this nice
white white color uh but if the top tier
performance is what you're after then
this ain't going to be it just because
the lower GPU wattage also I must say
the fan noise on these two devices is
not as quiet as I was hoping I'm not
sure why like the GPU wattage isn't
super high it doesn't pull a ton of uh
Power also these now have been updated
to the core Ultra chips which are less
energy consumptive why are the fans
still super loud I don't know they are
built like tanks though the these are
really sturdy and durable like the
bottom panel has zero Flex on it it's
like crazy how strong these things are
and the hinges as well are just super
tanky but again they're not built uh or
marketed as gaming laptops
but they have uh gaming capabilities the
XPS products are very expensive though
but if you get them at the right time
every year you can get them with some
pretty aggressive discounts so like just
before the Christmas season or like
Black Friday and stuff this stuff
usually goes for like 203 sometimes 40%
off and that's like the only time I
really feel like it's worth buying them
but you got to get the stuff on sale
otherwise you're just you're overpaying
for kind of a premium product Dell also
has their Alienware lineup which is some
actual gaming laptops this is their x14
and their x16 these have just had a chip
drop like the new generation of those
chips so nothing super exciting but I
have to say the x16 is it impresses me
every single time I look at it so the
thing that I find most interesting about
is that they still still keep the whole
Alienware theme and that whole brand
going with like the Unique Designs and
the hexagon patterns while still cooling
this particular product really well the
x16 is arguably like the best product
that they make I really think it's cool
plus the glowing trackpad like come on
dude this this thing just bangs now the
new product for this year is their M16
R2 now this right here is the M16 R1 the
one from last year but this one is their
new one and the first thing you'll
notice is they there like a massive
change in size you see this whole like
tail it's gone on the new M16 now the
reason why they're able to remove a huge
chunk of that laptop it's obviously a
smaller device now is because it's got
the new chip this now runs the core
Ultra chips instead of the core i7 I9
stuff that was a lot hotter so the good
thing is that they've made this product
a lot smaller the bad thing is that the
cool capabilities of this device are
significantly reduced as you can imagine
just removing that amount of like right
look at the size difference right it's a
huge amount of laptop and thermal
capability that is now gone so yes it's
smaller but the bad thing is that
because of that reduced cooling
capability this device now has fewer
configurations the old one could go like
4050 all the way up to 4090 now they
only have 4050 4060 407 70
configurations and the reason why is
because you just can't cool as
aggressively with this system now I
think this
product it's still good in the sense
that this is a cheaper product it's a
lower price point which is nice uh I
think that for the kind of a average
person that just wants an Alienware
device this is probably a better fit
than the M16 R1 but this is no longer
special laptop to me this does not have
the cooling capabilities of the R1 the
fans are louder the product just feels
less unique it feels less Alienware if
I'm being honest this product just feels
so kind of generic it it doesn't it's
not special anymore it does have some
rgbs it's got the whole Alienware look
but it doesn't have the cooling
capabilities that alien Wares should
have and I feel like if I'm being honest
I feel like this is not the direction
they should have gone obviously they
they know better than I do is like how
to run that business but I think that
this is a step down from the R1 from
last year so if I was trying to decide
between them if you can get the M16 R1
at this point for like a lower price
point sure it's bigger and heavier
thicker but I think it's a better laptop
we also have some Acer devices that
showed up this is the Predator Helios
Neo 16 and this is the Predator Helios
neo4 the 14 is really interesting to me
actually to be clear these are not
retail units this one is an engineering
sample same with the one below so I
can't do proper testing on it but the
first thing I noticed is that this
device is actually a little bit thicker
than what I would have expected for a
product of this class so this is if you
can see uh it's fairly kind of
like catch it there it's kind of like a
regular gaming laptop it's not like a
super thin one but it does use one of
those core Ultra chips so I was
expecting you know maybe they got to
crank maybe they can crank the
performance with the GPU this does have
a
125 watt GPU this is running a 4070 and
from my very limited testing which I
don't even let's let's not call it
testing from a very limited sampling
this is a very high performing machine
for 14inch device but uh I can't I can't
give any conclusive uh commentary on it
but it does look nice and does feel like
the this is classic Acer Predator I like
it and a fortune device from them is
pretty cool the 16-inch this is not like
brand new in terms of the product
category they've had a 16-inch product
for a while but I think the design
language is a little bit different this
year uh and does have like that light up
logo that I've always liked the right
it's almost like a Decepticon logo I
think it's cool uh no OLED screen at
least not from what I've seen but it
does seem like a really solid overall
product from Acer with my limited
testing on this device okay last up is
the HP Omen transcend 14 and this is the
first 14-in game gaming product I've
seen from The Omen lineup it's not super
small like it looks very small and
compact but when you compare it to like
let's say like a the G14 from Asus the
G14 is smaller despite having the same
kind of 14in screen but what makes this
one really special at least to me is its
price point it is a lot less expensive
than most other premium 14-inch gaming
laptops so this thing starts at I think
like 13400 bucks uh I also really like
the screen this is not touch it's just a
glossy panel there's no like matte
diffusion layer and I've always loved
the look of this like colors pop the
blacks are just a little bit blacker
when you have no diffusion on it and I'm
a big fan of it now the keyboard is a
little bit strange it's just like it's
got that white bezel run let me just
kill the back lighting so you can kind
of see the it's got that white trim
around each key but I think it types
nicely and it's great for games it's
just a little bit strange looking and it
allows the colors or like the back
liting to just pop through which I think
is neat if that's what you're into but
you always kill it if you don't like
that like or you don't like that light
um okay the one thing you need to know
about this product though the
disadvantage is the GPU wattage so this
is a relatively low powerered RTX 4060
that's in here I think it goes up to
4070 but it caps out at 80 Watts that's
with Boost so the performance isn't
going to be top tier but I feel like by
trimming down that GPU wattage they
don't need as beefy of a thermal system
on the inside so they can lower down the
price to make it more accessible but
also it makes the system a little bit
quieter this is just a quieter running
system compared to any other 14-inch
gaming laptops that I've shown so I do
feel like there's got there's room for
something like this right it's a little
bit cheaper it's not as capable a system
but I just think that for a lot of
people's kind of entry into the small
gaming laptop space something like this
is a really good fit um but yeah this is
the only h product I have right now
there is a vicus I've had some other
stuff but I'm like not really worth
showing I feel cuz just chip drops um
okay I want to wrap this video up with a
conversation about pricing so right now
all the stuff I've shown you has been
like super expensive products and I
don't think the the the point I'm trying
to make here is that I don't think
people should be going out and buying
all these crazy expensive laptops that
I've shown because the best pricing when
it comes to gaming laptops usually comes
from older devices but primarily older
devices when they're like refurbed or on
like massive sales and the thing you got
to look out for is like every one of the
brands that I've shown you well most of
them have good sales Razer doesn't uh
their pricing just kind of stays pretty
consistent but the three big ones that
go on sale the novo massive sales pretty
frequently uh HP decent Dell SL
Alienware has big sales occasionally but
it's just you got to get the stuff on
sale otherwise you're just paying for
stupid premiums just because of the
timing of when you bought it now The
Benchmark to me was this product right
here the Asus tough a15 this was
available for ,000 a Best Buy and it got
you an RTX 470 with high wattage it had
great configuration options with a good
screen wasn't like super bright but
really color accurate and the fact that
you could get that product for $1,000
like that kind of gaming capability for
just 1,000 bucks that's the gold
standard now I recognize that that's not
available every day right that was a
sale product very limited time but the
fact that that product could be achieved
for that kind of price point like that's
where you want to aim for as Clos as you
can get to that kind of value the better
uh so I think that once you go like
beyond, 15600 bucks you're no longer in
that value range it's just aim within
there go for 40 60 4070 I feel like
that's like the kind of the Comfort or
the value zone of where this whole
product line is okay hope you guys
enjoyed this video thumbs if you liked
it subs if you loved it see you guys
next time